All right, let's talk about another
powerful feature of state charts, and
that's history states.
What exactly are history states and
what are they used for?
History states are not exactly
the same as previous states,
because a previous state just represents
going arbitrarily back in time and
state machines need to be deterministic.
So if you do wanna go back to some other
state, there needs to be an explicit
transition from your current
states to whatever previous state.
So it sort of needs to be hard coded.
History states are actually used in
conjunction with compound states for
revisiting those states with
the previous child states that
the compound state was in.
So let me just describe this in a diagram.
Let's say that we have
a compound state over here and
this compound state has two child states.
So we have A, And we have B.
So let's also say that this
compound state has a sibling state,
and we'll just put this over here, and
it could transition back and
forth between the sibling state.
So we have an arrow going there,
and an arrow or transition,
whatever you want to call it going there,
of course we need an initial state.
So we're just going to go into A and
pretend that there's like a way
to transition from A to B.
So we have A and B right here.
All right, so
let's say that we answer this machine and
we're in the state A and
then a transition is taken out of
this compound state that
goes to this other state.
And then a transition from the other
states goes back to that compound states.
Well, A is going to be revisited again and
that's going to be the next states and
that's because it is the initial state.
However, let's say that we
transition from A to B.
And now B is our current states.
So now when we go to other,
we're in the other state,
so I'm just gonna color
this something else.
And now when we transition back,
I'm gonna color this purple,
what do you think will happen?
Well, since we're entering
this compound states,
we are going to also immediately
enter the initial states and
not the most recent child
state of the states.
So this might not be what we expect or
what we wants to model.
And so
that's where history states come in handy.
We could have this special,
it's called a pseudo states.
It's defined the same as any other state,
but
it's a state that serves
a special purpose.
And so we're just gonna mark
it with an H over here.
And this is called a history state.
So instead of going to this parent
state from this other state,
we go from the other
states to a history state.
And this history state is
a child of this parent state,
which means it's also a sibling
of the A and B states.
So what's gonna happen now is if
we're in the B state over here, and
we transition to the other state.
Now, when we transition back, and
keep in mind we're transitioning
directly into the history state.
That is actually going to say, all right,
we want to really transition
to the most recent child
state of this parent state,
which is going to be B.
And so that's why history states
are best for remembering what the most
recently visited child state in this
parent state was and going back to it.
So it's not a mechanism for
going back in states.
There's completely different
methods of doing that.
And you would also typically do that
outside of the state machine itself.
But rather, it's a way for
you to declaratively represent,
I want to go back to the most recently
visited child state in this parents.
So there's also such
thing as deep history.
And so let's say that this B state also
has some child states of its own and
let's say that this is
also a compound state.
So now instead of having to
have a history state here and
also have history state here and
if we have deeper levels adding more and
more history states, we could just
represent this as deep history.
And in state chart notation
that's represented with H*.
And so what this deep history
state is gonna do is it's
going to go to the most
recently visited child.
But it's also going to go to that child's
most recently visited children as well.
So it's an infinitely deep, or
a recursive if you will, history state.
And so
that could be useful in many situations.